# 1.0 Installation

### 1.0.1 - Glossary

Terms used in this guide and what they mean for this guide:

* Payer Account - AWS Organizations give you a "unified bill" so to speak under a single account. Sub accounts are created under this "Payer Account", which is the highest-level account in this organization. SREs all should also have an IAM user with credentials on each payer account, which has AssumeRole Permissions as administrator into each of these sub-accounts.
* Jump Role - Using AWS Assume-Role Chaining, a Jump Role is an intermediary role that sits between a given IAM user and a customer's access role, providing a single point of entry.
* Access Role - A role inside the cluster's account that we assume to perform tasks.

## 1.1 - Prerequisites

### 1.1.1 - IAM User and Secret
The operator requires a secret named `aws-account-operator-credentials` in the `aws-account-operator` namespace, containing credentials to the AWS payer account you wish to create accounts in. The secret should contain credentials for an IAM user in the payer account with the data fields `aws_access_key_id` and `aws_secret_access_key`.

The user should have the following IAM permissions:

Permissions to allow the user to assume the `OrganizationAccountAccessRole` role in any account created:

```json
{
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": {
       "Effect": "Allow",
       "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
       "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::*:role/OrganizationAccountAccessRole"
   }
}

```

Permissions to allow the user to interact with the support center:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "support:*"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}

```

Once the user has been configured, you can deploy the secret by exporting the access key and secret to the following variables and running `make deploy-aws-account-operator-credentials`:

```
OPERATOR_ACCESS_KEY_ID
OPERATOR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
```

Alternatively, if you have the credentials stored in your `~/.aws/credentials` file, you can use the script in `scripts/set_operator_credentials.sh` to create the secret from that profile: `./scripts/set_operator_credentials.sh my-aws-profile`

### 1.1.2 AWS Accounts

As you're working on the operator you should have two accounts dedicated for your use of this operator, under each of the osd-staging payer accounts.  Work with your manager or functional team lead to figure out what these account numbers are and save them, you'll need them later.

### 1.1.3 STS Roles

To run the operator tests for STS mode you will need to create two roles &mdash; one in each of the AWS accounts you have been assigned.  The name of these roles doesn't matter when you create it, however you will need to know the ARN of both in order to configure the operator to use them.

#### 1.1.3.1 - Jump Role

The Jump Role will be a simulation of the role that we use as a bastion of sorts. For the STS Architecture, we have an IAM user that assumes a specific role in a specific account, and then using that role they can assume role into the cluster's account in order to run operations as necessary.

You will need to create this jump role in the first osd-staging aws account assigned to you. You will need to add your Payer Account IAM user credentials as the the Principal in the Trust Relationship. This user should also be the same user that you use to create the AWS Account Operator credentials.

The Jump role should only require the permissions to assume-roles.  No other permissions should be necessary. You will probably need to create the IAM policy first before the Role.

Example Assume Role Policy:
```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

Example Trust Relationship for role:
```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
        "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::[payer-account-id]:user/[your-username]"
            },
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Condition": {}
        }
        ]
}
```

You will need to put the ARN for this jump role into the Operator Config Map created later.

#### 1.1.3.2 - Access Role

The Access Role will be a simulation of a role on a customer's account that gives us access to initalize the regions and initialize a cluster.  On external customer accounts this is assumed to be a very locked-down role with ONLY the necessary permissions needed to run the operator or install the cluster resources. Minimal permissions required for the role are provided below.

Example Trust Relationship:
```
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::[jump-role-account-id]:role/[jump-role-name]"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
      "Condition": {}
    }
  ]
}
```

Example minimal permissions Policy Document
```
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:RunInstances",
        "ec2:TerminateInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceStatus",
        "ec2:CreateTags",
        "ec2:DeleteTags"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

You will need to put the ARN for this access role into your environment in order for this to be used to create accountclaims within the make tests.

### 1.1.3 Config Map

The operator also needs a ConfigMap that has:

Account Limit: The soft limit of AWS Accounts which is the number compared against when creating new accounts
Base: Base OU ID to place accounts in when claimed
Root: Root OU ID to create new OUs under


```json
{
    "apiVersion": "v1",
    "data": {
        "account-limit": "4801",
        "base": "ou-0wd6-tmsbvahq",
        "root": "r-0wd6",
        "sts-jump-role": "[arn from the jump role created above]"
    },
    "kind": "ConfigMap",
    "metadata": {
        "name": "aws-account-operator-configmap",
        "namespace": "aws-account-operator",
    }
}
```

## 1.2 Workflow

First, an AccountPool must be created to specify the number of desired accounts to be ready. The operator then goes and creates that number of accounts.
When a [Hive](https://github.com/openshift/hive) cluster has a new cluster request, an AccountClaim is created with the name equal to the desired name of the cluster in a unique workspace. The operator links the AccountClaim to an Account in the pool, and creates the required k8s secrets, placing them in the AccountClaim's unique namespace. The AccountPool is then filled up again by the operator.  Hive then uses the secrets to create the AWS resources for the new cluster.

For more information on how this process is done, please refer to the controllers section.

## 1.3 Testing your AWS account credentials with the CLI

The below commands can be used to test payer account credentials where we create new accounts inside the payer accounts organization. Once the account is created in the first step we wait until the account is created with step 2 and retrieve its account ID. Using the account ID we can then test our IAM user has sts:AssumeRole permissions to Assume the OrganizationAccountAccessRole in the new account. The OrganizationAccountAccessRole is created automatically when a new account is created under the organization.

1. `aws organizations create-account --email "username+cli-test@redhat.com" --account-name "username-cli-test" --profile=orgtest`
2. `aws organizations list-accounts --profile=orgtest | jq '.[][] | select(.Name=="username-cli-test")'`
3. `aws sts assume-role --role-arn arn:aws:iam::<ID>:role/OrganizationAccountAccessRole --role-session-name username-cli-test --profile=orgtest`

## 1.4 Development

It is recommended to let the operator know when you're running it for testing purposes.
This has benefits such as skipping AWS support case creation.
This is done by setting `FORCE_DEV_MODE` in the operator's environment.
This is handled for you if you use one of the `make deploy-*` targets described below.

## 1.5 Operator Install

The operator can be installed into various cluster and pseudo-cluster environments. Depending which you choose, you can run in "local" mode or in "cluster" mode. The former is known to work in a Minishift or Code-Ready-Containers (CRC) cluster, or a private OpenShift cluster. The latter is known to work in a real OSD cluster. You can try to mix and match; it might work.

Both modes share predeployment steps. These can be done via `make predeploy`, which requires your access key credentials. You must be logged into the cluster as an administrator, or otherwise have permissions to create namespaces and deploy CRDs. For Minishift, this can be done:

```sh
oc login -u system:admin
OPERATOR_ACCESS_KEY_ID="YOUR_ACCESS_KEY_ID" OPERATOR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="YOUR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY" make predeploy
```

This does the following:
- Ensures existence of the namespace in which the operator will run.
- Installs the [credentials described above](#12-requirements).
- Installs the operator's [Custom Resource Definitions](deploy/crds).
- Creates an initially zero-size [accountpool CR](hack/files/aws.managed.openshift.io_v1alpha1_zero_size_accountpool.yaml).

Predeployment only needs to be done once, unless you are modifying the above artifacts.

### 1.5.1 Local Mode

"Local" development mode differs from production in the following ways:
- AWS support case management is skipped. Your Accounts will get an artificial case number.
- Metrics are served from your local system at http://localhost:8080/metrics

On a local cluster, after [predeploying](#151-operator-install), running

```sh
make deploy-local
```

will invoke the `operator-sdk` executable in `local` mode with the `FORCE_DEV_MODE=local` environment variable.
(**Note:** This currently relies on `operator-sdk` at version 0.5.0. The syntax of the executable has changed over time, so this `make` target may not work with other versions.)

### 1.5.2 Cluster Mode

In "cluster" development mode, as in local mode, AWS support case management is skipped.
However, metrics are served from within the cluster just as they are in a production deployment.

Once logged into the cluster, after [predeploying](#151-operator-install), running

```sh
make deploy-cluster
```

will do the following:
- Create the necessary service accounts, cluster roles, and cluster role bindings.
- Create the operator Deployment, including `FORCE_DEV_MODE=cluster` in the environment of the operator's container.

**Note:** `make deploy-cluster` will deploy the development image created by the `make build` target. As you iterate, you will need to `make build` and `make push` each time before you `make deploy-cluster`.

As with local mode, you must be logged into the cluster as an administrator, or otherwise have permissions to create namespaces and deploy CRDs.
