## 1.2 - Manual STS Setup
STS (Security Token Service) is a web service that enables you to request temporary, limited-privilege credentials for AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users or for users that you authenticate. Below are the steps involved in setting up your accounts manually to allow for STS testing. We've provided a script and background info [here](1.1-InstallationPrerequisites.md#113-sts-roles) which handle all of the steps below for you automatically, but have maintained the section below as a detailed explanation of the steps taken by the script.

### 1.2.1 - Jump Role

The `Jump Role` will be a simulation of the role that we use as a bastion of sorts. For the STS Architecture, we have an IAM user that assumes a specific role in a specific account, and then using that role they can assume role into the cluster's account in order to run operations as necessary.

You will need to create this `Jump Role` in the first osd-staging AWS account assigned to you. You will need to add your `Payer Account` IAM user credentials as the Principal in the `Trust Relationship`. Ensure this is the same user used to create the AWS Account Operator credentials.

The `Jump Role` should only require the permissions to assume-roles.  No other permissions should be necessary. You will probably need to create the IAM policy first before the Role. To do so go to your `AWS console > IAM > Policies > Create Policy > JSON`

Example Assume Role Policy:
```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

Next Step is to create the `Role` itself. To do so, go to `Roles > Create Role > Another AWS Account` - here you can paste the `Payer Account` ID for the required Account ID. Click `Next: Permissions` and select the newly created `Policy` from the previous step. Name the `Role` whatever you prefer. 

Next required step is to update the `Trust Relationship` for the `Role`. To do so, click into the `Role` you created, select the `Trust Relationship` tab and edit it, with the following example as a reference:
```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
      {
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Principal": {
              "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::[payer-account-id]:user/[your-username]"
          },
          "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
          "Condition": {}
      }
    ]
}
```
You will need to note the `ARN` for this `Jump Role` as it's required for the next step, setting up the `Access Role`.

**Note:** You will need to put the ARN for this `Jump Role` into the Operator Config Map created later - in the `STS_JUMP_ARN` and `STS_JUMP_ROLE` environment variables.

**Note 2:** Make sure your iam user in the `Payer Account` has sufficient permissions to assume the role. To do so, log in to your `Payer Account` again and go to `AWS Console > IAM > Users > [Username] > + Add inline policy`. Click on `JSON` and paste the following policy json:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::[assigned-osd-staging-1-account]:role/*"
        }
    ]
}
```

Replace `[assigned-osd-staging-1-account]` with the ID of the Account you created the Jump Role in. Verify your permissions by assuming the role from your awscli:

```
$> aws sts assume-role --role-arn ${STS_JUMP_ARN} --role-session-name "STSCredsCheck"
{
    "Credentials": {
...
```

### 1.2.2 - Access Role

The `Access Role` will be a simulation of a role on a customer's account that gives us access to initialize the regions and initialize a cluster.  On external customer accounts this is assumed to be a very locked-down role with ONLY the necessary permissions needed to run the operator or install the cluster resources. Minimal permissions required for the role are provided below.

Create a new `Role` for this account, similarly to how the role was created for the `Jump Role`, but instead of pointing to the `Payer Account` ID, point at the Account ID belonging to `Account 1`, ie. the Account with the Jump Role. 

Once created, the `Role`'s `Trust Relationship` will need to be updated with the following example:
```
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::[assigned-osd-staging-1-account]:role/[jump-role-name]"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
      "Condition": {}
    }
  ]
}
```

Example minimal permissions Policy Document
```
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:RunInstances",
        "ec2:TerminateInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeInstanceStatus",
        "ec2:CreateTags",
        "ec2:DeleteTags"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```
**Note:** You will need to put the ARN for this `Access Role` into your environment variable, `STS_ROLE_ARN`, in order for this to be used to create accountclaims within the make tests.
