# 2.0 Development

## 2.1 Development Mode

It is recommended to let the operator know when you're running it for testing purposes.
This has benefits such as skipping AWS support case creation.
This is done by setting the `FORCE_DEV_MODE` env var to `local` in the operator's environment.
This is already handled for you if you use one of the `make deploy-*` targets described below.

## 2.2 Operator Install

The operator can be installed into various cluster and pseudo-cluster environments. Depending which you choose, you can run in `local` mode or in `cluster` mode.
The local mode is known to work in a [Minishift](https://www.okd.io/minishift/) or [Code-Ready-Containers (CRC)](https://developers.redhat.com/products/codeready-containers/overview) cluster, and a private [OpenShift](https://www.openshift.com/) cluster.
The latter is known to work in a real [OpenShift Dedicated](https://www.openshift.com/products/dedicated/) cluster.

**Note:** You can try to mix and match; it might work.

Both local and cluster modes share predeployment steps. These can be done via `make predeploy`, which requires your AWS access key credentials.
You must be logged into the cluster as an administrator, or otherwise have permissions to create namespaces and deploy CRDs. For Minishift, this can be done:

```sh
oc login -u system:admin
OPERATOR_ACCESS_KEY_ID="YOUR_ACCESS_KEY_ID" OPERATOR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="YOUR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY" make predeploy
```

This does the following:
- Ensures existence of the namespace in which the operator will run.
- Installs the [credentials described above](#12-requirements).
- Installs the operator's [Custom Resource Definitions](deploy/crds).
- Creates an initially zero-size [AccountPool CR](hack/files/aws.managed.openshift.io_v1alpha1_zero_size_accountpool.yaml).

Predeployment only needs to be done once, unless you are modifying the above artifacts.

### 2.2.1 Local Mode

"Local" mode differs from production in the following ways:
- AWS support case management is skipped. Your Accounts will get an artificial case number.
- Metrics are served from your local system at http://localhost:8080/metrics

On a local cluster, after [predeploying](#15-operator-install), run

```sh
make deploy-local
```

will invoke the `operator-sdk` executable in `local` mode with the `FORCE_DEV_MODE=local` environment variable.

**Note:** The operator relies on `operator-sdk` v0.16.0. The syntax of the executable has changed over time, so this `make` target may not work with other versions.

### 2.2.2 Cluster Mode

In "cluster" development mode, as in local mode, AWS support case management is skipped.
However, metrics are served from within the cluster just as they are in a production deployment.

Once logged into the cluster, after [predeploying](#15-operator-install), running

```sh
make deploy-cluster
```

will do the following:
- Create the necessary service accounts, cluster roles, and cluster role bindings.
- Create the operator Deployment, including `FORCE_DEV_MODE=cluster` in the environment of the operator's container.

**Note:** `make deploy-cluster` will deploy the development image created by the `make build` target. As you iterate, you will need to `make build` and `make push` each time before you `make deploy-cluster`.

As with local mode, you **must** be logged into the cluster as an administrator, or otherwise have permissions to create namespaces and deploy CRDs.

## 2.3 Testing
To run the test suite defined within the `Makefile` against your cluster, run:
```sh
make test-all
```

`make test-all` combines a number of test suites together to make things easier to validate the state of the cluster. If preferred, individual test suites can be run, such as:
```
make test-account-creation 
make test-ccs 
make test-reuse
etc.
``` 

## 2.4 Using integration-test bootstrap script to run tests
[Integration test bootstrap script](https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/master/hack/scripts/integration-test-bootstrap.sh) serves as an entrypoint for performing integration tests for different flow profiles. For more information [read here](https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/master/docs/7.0-ProwCIIntegrationTest.md)

### Integration Test Prerequisites
- Check for core [prerequisites](https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/master/docs/1.1-InstallationPrerequisites.md#11---prerequisites).
- Environment Variables:-
    Setup .envrc file in root folder as per [doc](https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/master/docs/1.1-InstallationPrerequisites.md#115-environment-variables),
    and add below variables to it
    ```
    export SUPPORT_JUMP_ROLE=
    export STS_JUMP_ROLE=
    export OPERATOR_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
    export OPERATOR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
    ```
- Ensure command line utilities dependencies **jq** & **awscli** are present.

### 2.4.1 Testing on local crc cluster
- Login to crc cluster as kubeadmin.
- From root folder of AAO repository run - `make local-ci-entrypoint`

### 2.4.2 Testing on local osd stage cluster
- Login to osd cluster via backplane
- From root folder of AAO repository run - `make stage-ci-entrypoint`
