# 6.0 Maintenance

This document details common maintenance tasks that cannot be automated.

## 6.1 - Adding a new Region to support

Adding a new region is a relatively simple task with a few steps:

1. First, we need to find the AMI in the region (AWS amis have different IDs based on region). A quick way to find an official Red Hat AMI is to search for a known ami-id in a known region, find the account ID that AMI is published under, and then search for that account id under the new region.
    1. Open the AWS Console for your dev account
    1. Ensure you are in the us-east-1 region
    1. Go to the EC2 -> AMIs page and search for the [ami id for the us-east-1 region](https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/34f6f7a0dd74167804a4b9e807010c8c513879d0/hack/olm-registry/olm-artifacts-template.yaml#L79)
    1. Copy the `Owner account ID` field
    1. Change your AWS Region to be the new region you wish to support
    1. In the EC2 -> AMIs page, search for the AccountID you just copied
    1. Find a RHEL 7.Y image you wish to use and note the ami id.
1. Note the smallest instance type you can use for this region.
    1. Most new AWS regions at the time of this writing support only t3.micro instance types, compared to the default regions supporting t2.micro instance types, etc.
    1. You can find this by attempting to launch an instance from the AMI you just found in step 1, and seeing what the "Free Tier Eligible" instance type is for that region.
1. Add this information to the [hack/olm-registry/olm-artifacts-template](https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/master/hack/olm-registry/olm-artifacts-template.yaml) and [hack/templates/aws.managed.openshift.io_v1apha1_configmap](https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/master/hack/templates/aws.managed.openshift.io_v1alpha1_configmap.tmpl) files.
1. In CRC, test these changes with `make test-all`.
