# 9.0 Opt-In Regions

Content:

- [9.0 Opt-In Regions](#90-opt-in-regions)
  - [Where are Opt-In Regionss defined?](#where-are-opt-in-regions-defined)
  - [So our new Account has AWS opted-in regions defined, now what?](#so-our-new-account-has-aws-opted-in-regions-defined-now-what)
  - [How to enable opted-in regions for existing ready accounts?](#how-to-enable-opted-in-regions-for-existing-ready-accounts)
  - [Batch, batch, batch](#batch-batch-batch)

## Where are Opt-In Regions defined?
AAO now supports AWS opt-in regions for non-CCS accounts, both for new and existing accounts. This new feature is hidden behind a feature flag, which is set in the AAO ConfigMap. Along with this, the 'opt-regions' key is used to specify opt-in regions, example:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: aws-account-operator-configmap
  namespace: aws-account-operator
data:
  account-limit: "1234"
  feature.opt_in_regions: "true"
  opt-in-regions: af-south-1,ap-southeast-4,ap-east-1,ap-southeast-3,eu-south-2
```

## So our new Account has AWS opted-in regions defined, now what?
Our new `Account` CR should reconcile as normal once it reaches the 'Creating' state. At this point, the state will transition to the `OptingInRegions` state. `OptingInRegions` encapsulates two sets of requests to AWS:
1. Checking the status of the region.
2. Enabling the opt-in regions defined in the AAO ConfigMap. 

To track the state of our region enablement requests between reconciles, we load the region status into the Account CR status and example:
```yaml
status:
  optInRegions:
    af-south-1:
      status: ENABLED
    ap-east-1:
      status: ENABLING
    ap-southeast-3:
      status: TODO
    ap-southeast-4:
      status: ENABLING
    eu-south-2:
      status: MANUAL_ACTION
```
When an OptIn region's status is `MANUAL_ACTION`, it means the region was not able to be enabled through the AWS API because the OrganizationAccountAccessRole had insufficient permissions.

## How to enable opted-in regions for existing ready accounts?
Begin by updating the AAO ConfigMap and then restarting the `aws-account-operator` pod. Upon the update, the `account_validation_controller.go` will iterate over all Ready accounts and verify that regions specified in the ConfigMap are enabled for non-ccs accounts using the `ValidateOptInRegions` function: [https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/941b949410b19d812e79b21e185889afdaa8a84f/controllers/validation/account_validation_controller.go#L535-L608]

## Batch, batch, batch
AWS imposes a maximum limit of 6 regions that can be concurrently enabled on a given account and a maximum limit of 9 accounts that can enable regions simultaneously. To circumvent these limits imposed by AWS, we batch the enablement requests. [link to code](https://github.com/openshift/aws-account-operator/blob/941b949410b19d812e79b21e185889afdaa8a84f/controllers/account/region_enablement.go#L92-L121) is the link to the code.

